---
title: The EIU
date: 2021-03-01
---

After almost two years of work on the new Economist.com website, the workload starts to reduce a little bit as their internal teams grow and move more towards maintenance mode. However, there's work to be done at their sister company, Economist Intelligence Unit, providing business intelligence, statistics, and analysis.

My work here begins as fairly standard React development as they were in the middle of rewriting their legacy site, but I took the initiative to lead their accessibility improvement after the results of an accessibility audit came through not too long after I joined.

I took the findings of an external accessibility audit, transformed them into a comprehensive Jira epic, organised and tagged the tickets in a way that would allow senior stakeholders to have a much clearer picture of the progress made towards WCAG compliance, and letting the product teams prioritise their time.

This let us clearly separate the more straight-forward development-only fixes from things that would require collaborating with other teams to overhaul their tools and/or workflow, such as editorial and CMS, where the content such as charts, graphs, or content images lacked adequate description for screen reader users.

Additionally, where the accessibility issues were partially or entirely as a result of third-party components, I audited the third-party components and advised on the best strategy for fixing them. Some resulted in upstream fixes, other components could be configured differently to alleviate the issues, and some were best served by being replaced either with an internal purpose-built solution or a different third-party component.

By the time my time at the EIU was up a year and a bit later, I had left the development and product teams better equipped to tackle their existing accessibility issues, and through mentoring and knowledge-sharing, build more accessible products in the future.